US Staffing Interview
Questions & Answers
1) What is staffing?
Staffing is the process of hiring, positioning and overseeing employees
in an organization. The selection and training of individuals for specific
job functions, and charging them with the associated responsibilities is
called Staffing.
2) How many states are there in us? 50 States are there in US
3) How many time zones are there in us?
There are 9 time zones by law in the USA and its dependencies,
however, adding the time zones of 2 uninhabited US territories gives 11
time zones in total. The 4 Major US contiguous Time zones followed by
EST, CST, MST and PST
4) On which time zone your company will work?
EST /CST/ MST/ PST (Depends upon your company location in the US)
5) What is the role of bench sales recruiter?
A 'Bench Marketer' or 'Bench Sales Recruiter' is a Sales, Account or
Recruiting person at a staffing company that is responsible for marketing
that company's 'bench' of consultants, that are not working on projects.
They find requirements, propose their candidates and place them on
projects with Clients or Tier 1 Staffing agencies in the US.
6) What is the role of US IT recruiter?
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/The IT recruiter acts as a liaison between the client company and the
candidates for the position throughout the entire recruitment process and
is compensated by the hiring employer either directly or indirectly.
7) Where is your company located in India /& USA?
Check With your company address using company website.
8) How many submissions you do daily?
If it is a 1099 or W2 Requirement, then i used to submit 1-2 submissions
per day, and if it is a C2C Requirement i used to submit 3-4 submissions
per day.
9) How many submissions i can expect from you per day? Average of 2/3
Submissions u can expect from me..
10) What's the difference between a 'Sourcer' and a 'Recruiter'?
A recruiter is someone who actually talks to the candidates after filtering
the info gathered by sourcers. ... A sourcer is someone who gathers
potential candidates for a recruiter.
11) What are major portals you have used sofar?
Monster, Dice, Techfetch, Jobdiva, Linkedin and Careerbuilder etc.;
12) Did you worked with any non IT requirements?
Answer may be Yes/No Depends upon your exposure to knowledge and
work experience on Non IT Requirements, If the answer is No, Then
Please inform the interviewer in a good manner as follows “No, I didn’t
get a chance to work on Non IT Requirements but I have good
knowledge on
them”
13) How many no of placements/pos/closures you did so far? Depends
upon the experience.
14) Can you plz tell me the client names you worked? (or)
How many clients are there in your company?
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/INFOSYS, TCS, IBM, Starbase, EMC, Encode, NTT Data, Fedex,
Fedility Investments, Recruiting Innovators and etc(Ans will be varied
depends upon the candidate experience)
15) What are the requirements you worked on so far?
All the regular IT Technologies like, Java, .Net, QA, ERP Technologies
like SAP, Peoplesoft and Datawarhouse technologies like ETL,
Informatica, Datastage, Teradata and also database technologies like
SQL, Oracle and DB2. worked with the operating systems Linux, Unix,
Windows and also network admin and network engineer requirements
too.
16) How many placements /pos/closures i can expect from you in month?
One placement you can expect from me in a month
17) Do you have any incentive structure in ur company?
For each and every placement we used to get 10000/- at a time (single
payment)
18) How will you get ur salaries? Through check or bank account
19) How many consultants are there on us bench (or) on your company
payroll?
50, Answer varies from company to company
20) How many requirements you get on daily basis? average of 4-5
requirements per day.
21) Did you involved in h1'B transfer?
no, i never get a chance to involved in H1'B Transfer we do have separate
team for that.
22) On which type of requirements you used to work? Mostly IT
Requirements and also covers NON IT as well.
23) Average of how many calls you do daily? Depends upon the type of
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/requirements.
24) Average of how many submissions you do daily? 2/3
25) How will you start your work?
• After entering into office i will start my computer.
• Once i start my computer i will get open requirements to my official id
from my account manager
• After getting requirement from my account manager i will start
analyzing the requirement clearly.
• If i will get any doubts regarding the requirement, i will directly ask
my Account manager to clear my doubts.
• After getting clear idea about the requirement, i will start working on
the requirement.
• If it is W2 requirement i will prepare the Boolean search string
according to the requirement and also according the skill set, then i
will copy search string from my notepad and will paste it on the job
boards like Monster and CareerBuilder.
• If I’m getting good profiles, then that will be fine i will pick up the
best profile and i will try to reach that consultant, and i will
communicate with that particular consultant through phone by
explaining about the Job Description clearly,
• I will discuss about the JD with consultant. If he is comfortable with
the requirement and i will send a mail to him to collect required details
to do submission,
• After getting complete details, then i will forward that profile to client
through my A/C Manager.
• If it is a C2C Requirement, I will send mails to my own thousands
of employers database, if i won't get any profile from my own
database, then i will try to find the profile using google groups / yahoo
groups / LinkedIn / Facebook or by posting Job description in the
portals, in final case i will prefer portals to find out the profiles, then i
will screen that consultants then i will submit the best profile to my
client through my A/C Manager. Most of the times, i won’t use
portals for a C2C Requirement, i can submit profile for C2C
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/requirement without using any portal.
• After submitting profile, I will interact with my manager daily after
submitting a profile &i will take feedback from him every time. i will
do follow up, till candidate got placed.
26) Can you please tell me your official id and desk number? those are
confidential, If you will release my offer letter then i will provide my
official id and desk number too.
27) Can you please list out your placement details?
You have to explain clearly about your placement details along with
client details, duration, type of requirement, and the rate we submitted.
Example: I did total 8 Placements in my last company in the entire last
year,
Give him a Example like below
My Last placement is on Java Developer Requirement, Client is Toyota
through CTS Location is Plano, TX and it is a year long project
28) Why did you left your last company?
• Lack of direct clients
• Most of the positions through third party requirements
• We don’t have strong Bench
• Looking for good career growth
• To get better working environment
• To improve my skills
• For a better salary
And also mention if you have any personal reasons and do not blame
your company in a bad manner, That will impact you more in the
interview
29) On which technologies you did your placements? List out the IT
Technologies you know more strong
30) Why should I hire you?
Explain him clearly with your plus points
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/31) What is RTR form? Right to Represent Form
Once you have agreed to be put forward for a particular role, you will be
sent a 'Right to Represent' agreement. You must respond to this
document agreeing to be represented. This is a 'job by job' confirmation.
that you have agreed to be represented for this particular job by our
team. Once you have agreed to be represented by us for a particular
job/opportunity you are unable to be represented by another agency for
this particular job/opportunity.
32) What is NDA?
A non-disclosure agreement (NDA), also known as a confidentiality
agreement (CA), confidential disclosure agreement (CDA), proprietary
information agreement (PIA), or secrecy agreement, is a legal contract
between at least two parties that outlines confidential material,
knowledge, or information that the parties wish to share with one
another for certain purposes, but wish to restrict access to or by third
parties. It is a contract through which the parties agree not to disclose
information covered by the agreement. An NDA creates a confidential
relationship between the parties to protect any type of confidential and
proprietary information or trade secrets. As such, an NDA protects non-
public business information. NDAs are commonly signed when two
companies, individuals, or other entities (such as partnerships, societies,
etc.) are considering doing business and need to understand the
processes used in each other's business for the purpose of evaluating the
potential business relationship. NDAs can be "mutual", meaning both
parties are restricted in their use of the materials provided, or they can
restrict the use of material by a single party. It is also possible for an
employee to sign an NDA or NDA-like agreement with an employer. In
fact, some employment agreements will include a clause restricting
employees' use and dissemination of company-owned confidential
information.
33) What is the most difficult situations you have faced till now? Explain
them the most difficult situation
34) How to screen a candidate /how to identify fake candidate?
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/By asking few questions like about his DOB, when did he entered into
US? And through which visa he entered in US, when did he got his h1,
LinkedIn ID, and some questions related to his technology and also
taking 2/3 official references from consultant
35) Tell me about your company?
Explain them about your company clearly.
36) How will you get the requirements? Through my A/C Manager
37) Who will send you the requirements? My A/C Manager
38) How many of employees are working in your company? Tell them a
figure including you and your entire team.
39) What are the tax terms are in us? W2, 1099 and Corp-Corp
40) Tell me about yourself? As experienced person,
• My self Laxminarayana Bupathi
• I’m having total X+ years of experience
• My total experience into US Staffing only
• Currently working as a Team Lead for XXXXXXX., Hyderabad, India
from Jan 2013 to Till Date.
• My entire X+ Years of experience into US Recruitment and Bench
sales.
• Managed full life cycle recruiting, and also end-end recruiting in
bench sales and recruiting.
• Worked with Direct clients, Implementing partners and layers or third
party requirements/clients for both Fulltime and contract positions.
• Worked with tax teams like W2,1099 and C2C.
• Worked with different types of visa holders like H1b’s, EADs, GCs,
and US Citizens.
• Worked with the Clients like Infosys, TCS, PatnyIGate Computers,
CTS, Starbase, EMC, NTT data, Encode, N Sight, Master card,
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Recruiting Innovators, Fedex, Cross USA, American Airlines, IPG,
Fedility Investments &Wicresoft etc.,
• Worked with the US based Job boards like Dice, Monster, Corp-
Corp(Tech Fetch), Career Builder and Linkedin.
• Good experience in marketing of our own H1, OPT Consultants and
placing them.
• In the entire my staffing career i did total number of 30 – 40 closures.
41) What is your strengths and weakness?
Tell them about your strengths and try to avoid weakness points.
42) Do you have your own DataBase?
Yes, i have thousands of employers/recruiters Database.
43) What is your day to day activities?
• After entering into office i will start my computer.
• Once i start my computer i will get open requirements to my official
id from my account manager
• After getting requirement from my account manager i will start
analysing the requirement clearly.
• If i will get any doubts regarding the requirement, i will directly ask
my Account manager to clear my doubts.
• After getting clear idea about the requirement, i will start working on
the requirement.
• If it is W2 requirement i will prepare the Boolean search string
according to the requirement and also according the skill set, then i
will copy search string from my notepad and will paste it on the job
boards like Monster and CareerBuilder.
• If I’m getting good profiles, then that will be fine i will pick up the
best profile and i will try to reach that consultant, and i will
communicate with that particular consultant through phone by
explaining about the Job Description clearly,
• I will discuss about the JD with consultant. If he is comfortable with
the requirement and i will send a mail to him to collect required details
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/to do submission,
• After getting complete details, then i will forward that profile to client
through my A/C Manager.
• If it is a C2C Requirement, I will send mails to my own thousands
of employers database, if i won't get any profile from my own
database, then i will try to find the profile using google groups / yahoo
groups / Linkedin / Facebook or by posting Job description in the
portals, in final case i will prefer portals to find out the profiles, then i
will screen that consultants then i will submit the best profile to my
client through my A/C Manager. Most of the times, i won’t use
portals for a C2C Requirement, i can submit profile for C2C
requirement without using any portal.
• After submitting profile, I will interact with my manager daily after
submitting a profile &i will take feedback from him every time. i will
do follow up, till candidate got placed.
44) Do you hold any offer right now? Yes, i do have one more offer in
my hand.
45) How much salary you are expecting?
Say at least 15% to 20% Hike from your last CTC
46) How do you negotiate the salary/rate?
Before we can start to discuss the specifics of candidate rate negotiation,
six rules for recruiters to live by, I think it is important that recruiters
first understand exactly what is within Candidate rate negotiation, six
rules for recruiters to live by their control and what is outside of their
control. There are a number of things across the entire IT recruitment
process that are outside of our control, but there are also several things in
which recruiters can exert 100% control over including:
What candidates we submit
What we offer and are willing to pay our candidates Whether or not we
establish a fair pay rate or salary history How we position our
opportunity with our candidate. The questions we ask our candidates,
It’s important that recruiters focus their time and energy on the things
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/they can control rather than worry about and complain about the things
they can’t control. How Smart, Savvy Candidates Think and Act
Recruiters also need to understand that there are three things that all
smart, savvy candidates do:
Smart candidates are never first to reveal or share what their current
salary or salary history is. Why? It weakens their negotiation position.
How? What if they crush the interview, and the client decides they’re
now willing to pay whatever it takes, even above and beyond their
budgeted salary to get the candidate, but the candidate has positioned
him or herself at a lower rate? Smart candidates recognize this
opportunity.
Here are some common scenarios in which recruiters will have to
negotiate candidate rates:
Candidate completes interview and states he or she want more money
due to the role and responsibilities
Candidate claims he or she received a counter offer from his or her
current employer
Candidate claims he or she received another offer for more money
Candidate changed his or her mind on how much money he or she needs
to earn and is simply asking for more money
Candidate claims another vendor submitted his or her resume to the
same job for higher pay rate.
Whatever the candidate’s reason is for wanting an increase in the pay
rate or negotiating on other terms, I suggest you follow the pay rate
objection and negotiation resolution model. This is a framework you can
follow for effectively addressing and negotiating candidate pay rates in
order to reach a win-win candidate rate negotiation model negotiation.
As you will notice in the diagram, step three is for the recruiter to
position the value of their offer. What this means is the recruiter needs to
share with the candidate what he or she stands to gain by accepting their
opportunity. This may include the pay rate or salary, health insurance
and other benefits. The value the recruiter positions really comes down
to how well the recruiter understands their candidate's compelling event
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/and motivators for leaving his or her existing situation and considering
your opportunity as well as their decision-making process. Perhaps the
work environment, hours or commute is really important to your
candidate. The point is you need to review your notes and make sure that
you understand what is most important to your candidate that is equal to
or greater than the additional amount of money he or she is asking for.
Going Silent in Negotiations
Silence can be an effective negotiating tactic. Going silent acts as a black
hole, just waiting there for someone to fall into. Most people get uneasy
with a long, uncomfortable pause and silence. When the recruiter goes
silent when negotiating, candidates tend to want to speak to break the
silence. The things they say to break the silence often are statements in
which they make concessions or weaken their position. Recruiters need
to recognize this and act on it. On the flip side, it is important that when
recruiters go silent that they are not the first to speak. The idea with going
silent is, after you make your offer or position the value your opportunity
has to offer, you go silent and remain silent until the candidate responds.
The key here is you can’t speak before your candidate. If you speak
before your candidate, then you effectively negate the offer you just put
on the table, and the candidate will expect you to sweeten the offer you
just made. So if you use this tactic, you must be comfortable in
remaining silent.
Remember any increase in pay rate you offer represents a transfer of
profit from your company and your commission to your candidate. To
help you plan what you want to ask for, you can use a negotiation trade
off sheet. Taking the time to complete a negotiation trade off sheet will
significantly increase your effectiveness in trading equal profit for profit
when negotiating candidate rates.
Six Rules to Running an Effective Candidate Negotiation
When it comes to candidate rate negotiation, there are six key rules to
live by. Before you go into any candidate negotiation you need to
understand and be prepared with the following.
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Never give anything without getting something in return. Always ask for
something in return when you give or make a concession.
Only negotiate with those who have the power to say yes.
Only negotiate when the candidate is ready and able to commit and
accept what it is you have to offer. Do NOT attempt to negotiate before
the candidate can commit.
What concessions are you willing to accept? You need to think this
through and make a decision before you go into your negotiation.
What do you want in return for what you are going to give?
You must be willing to walk away. If you are not ready and willing to
walk away from a candidate and/or deal, then you are not ready to
negotiate.
What information you will collect while doing a submission?
47)
Depends upon the company this information will be changed.
For Example:
Full Name (As per SSN)
SSN Number
DOB
Current Location
Home Phone & Cell Phone
E-mail address
Current Employer
Work Authorization
Total yrs. of IT exp
Skills
Expected Salary/ Rate
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Relocation ( Yes or No)
Availability/Notice period
Preferable time for discussion
Any bond/commitments with
current employer
Reason of looking out for change
Sample Example of a submission:
Hi Mike,
Please find the profile of Xyz M Abc for the below
.Net Lead / Architect Position with the client CTS and End Client
APPLE.
Full Name (As per SSN) Xyz M Abc
SSN Last 4 digits 6789
DOB 11th Sep 1980
Current Location New Jersey
Home Phone & Cell Phone 732-xxx-xxxx
E-mail address xyz@gmail.com
Current Employer xyzabc solutions
Work Authorization H1-B
Total yrs of IT exp 10+ Years
Skills .Net Lead / Architect
Expected Salary/ Rate $68/hr on C2C
Relocation ( Yes or No) Yes
Availability/Notice period 2 Weeks
Preferable time for discussion After 4PM EST
Any bond with current employer
NO
Project will finish
Reason of looking out for change soon
Any vacation plans in first year NO
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/48) Did you get any chance to work with the client directly? or to
communicate with client directly?
NO, I never get a chance to communicate with client.
49) What is the max validity of a H1'B?
A foreign worker with an H-1B visa can stay in the U.S. for a maximum
of six years. The H-1B visa and status is initially valid for three years and
can then be extended for another three years.
50) What is EAD?
EAD, or employment authorization document, is a document issued by
USCIS that allows people who already hold a US visa to work legally in
the US.
51) What are different types of VISAS are there in USA?
F1, CPT, OPT, EAD, H1B, L1, H4, L2, GC, GC-EAD, and US Citizen
52) On each requirement how many profiles you will submit? Average of
2 (Depends upon your capabilities)
53) What is meant by a requirement?
Detailed Job Description from the client point of view
54) Who is consultant?
Consultant is nothing but an Employee
55) After 5-10 yrs. Where would you like to see yourself?
Account Manager or BDM
56) If you will get a chance to work as team lead, how do you feel?
Great to here, and I will feel proud myself., I will make sure to achieve
targets set by company and my manager with the help of my team mates
57) What is meant by Boolean Search String?
Boolean Search String: It is nothing but, it is a type of search criteria to
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/find out the resumes from job portals/job boards like Naukri, Monster,
Career Builder, and Dice etc. with the help of Boolean operators like
“AND”, “OR” and “NOT” and also with some special characters and
symbols like “Asterisk/Star (*)”, “Open and Closed Braces ()”, Inverted
Quotes (””), and space whenever we required.
58) Can we consider a H1'B consultant for a W2 requirement?
Generally, we can’t consider a H1-B Candidate for a W2 Requirement,
but if he is ready to transfer his H1-B to our Payroll, then we can
consider him.
59) Do you have any idea about bench sales?
As a Bench Sales Recruiter was involved in selling the bench
consultants, including searching, qualifying, scheduling interviews, rate
negotiations, and closing. Involved in sales i.e., bench consultants to the
Vendors and Clients for the requirements and The bench sales recruiter
identifies contract (or C2C, or Corp-to-Corp) requirements from job
boards, social media, and other online sources.
60) Can we consider a 'OPT' consultant for C2C/W2/1099?
We can’t consider a 'OPT’ consultant for 1099 but we can consider a
OPT candidate for C2C and W2, That’s all depends upon the client.
61) What is meant by Rate/Salary confirmation mail?
Rate / salary Confirmation mail is nothing but a mail confirmation
between two parties regarding salary or rate
Sample Example of Rate Confirmation E-Mail:
HiShiva,
It was nice talking to you!!
Rate Confirmation:
As discussed earlier please confirm the rate as $58/hr on C2C (All
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Inclusive) for your consultant “AjithaVemula” for the below Java
Developer position at Cupertino, CA position with the client
COGNIZANT and the end client APPLE
Thanks and Regards
Bupathi - Sr. IT Recruiter
XYZ Corp.
62) How to leave a voice mail?
Hi, this is BUPATHI From XYZ Technologies I have an urgent
opening on Java Developer Position based out in Dallas, TX, regarding
this position I have sent you detailed JD to your mail id, If you are
interested, please revert me back on same e-mail or call me on my
number i.e. 123-456-7890 I repeat 123-456-7890.
(or)
Hi Rob, this is Laxmi calling from ABC Company, regarding a Job
opportunity with my direct client BD for Manufacturing Engineer Role
based out at Dallas, TX. I already shared an email with complete JD to
rob@gmail.com, If you are interested, please revert back to my email
with your updated resume or else please kindly call me back on my
direct/desk number 123-456-7890, I repeat 123-456-7890
63) If i Have a rate of $50/hr for a position, then what will be the best tax
term among W2/1099 and C2C for a consultant??
1099 and C2C are the best compare with W2
64) What is SSN?
In the United States, a Social Security number (SSN) is a nine-digit
number issued to U.S. citizens, permanent residents, and temporary
(working) residents under section 205(c)(2) of the Social Security Act,
codified as 42 U.S.C. § 405(c)(2). The number is issued to an individual
by the Social Security Administration, an independent agency of the
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/United States government. Its primary purpose is to track individuals for
Security purposes.
A Social Security number may be obtained by applying on Form SS-5,
"Application for A Social Security Number Card".
Example of SSN Number: 631-08-2435
What is W2?
65)
W2: If the total taxes paid by the employer or company itself on
behalf of candidate or consultant or employee, we could call that
scenario as W2. In W2, we would be having two types, one is W2
Hourly Payroll for contract workers and second one is Annually for
permanent employees. W2 is opposite to 1099. In W2 we can
consider any visa consultant based on the inputs/instructions from the
client.
66) What is 1099?
1099: If the total taxes paid by the consultant / individual contractor
(employee) him/her self we can call that scenario as 1099. In 1099,
we would be having only one method for contract workers only.
1099 is opposite to W2. In 1099 We cannot consider all the visa
consultants; we will limit to few visa consultants like GC/USC.
67) What is C2C?
If the Taxes through one corporation to another corporation or If the
Taxes varies from one corporation to another corporation, we can call
it as a C2C. Generally, Employer Company will pay the taxes that
means, the company who is holding the visa of consultant will pay
the taxes., here taxes will be taken care by the parent company of the
candidate.
68) How do u rate yourself out of 10? 9/10
69) What is HOT LIST?
Hot List is nothing but a list of consultants on their own w2 in company
with complete information
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/EXAMPLE OF SAMPLE HOTLIST:
Hi Partners,
Hope you are doing well. Please find my below updated Hotlist and if
you have any opportunity’s please send me at Raju@abccompany.com
or call me on +1 256-575-8845. [or]
Please find the Hotlist of my consultants looking for new projects.
I would appreciate if you could forward suitable requirements to my
email
EXAMPLE OF A SAMPLE REQUIREMENT:
Hi Professional,
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/This is BUPATHI From ABCDEF Technologies I have a urgent
opening on below requirement, If you have any consultants, then please
revert me back with your consultant updated profile ASAP., Incase if you
want any more details please reach me at 703-xxx-xxxx or Mail me on at
xxxxxxxx@xxxx.com
Requirement: UI/UX Consultant Location: Cupertino, CA.
Duration: 1 Year
Client: CTS, End Client: Apple
Candidate should have excellent working knowledge of the state-of-the
art in the HTML5/CSS3/JS space and be able to apply it to develop the
next- gen UI component framework for a large-scale business
application.
Core skills required: Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, JS MVC
•
Frameworks, JS Component Frameworks
Core skill: JavaScript:
•
Required: Should be a JS expert
o
Required: Experience with: jQuery
o
Required: Experience with: Backbone
o
Required: Working knowledge of state of the art in the
o
JavaScript world
Required: Expertise in AJAX, XML handling, JSON handling
o
Types of VISAS for US Market
List of U.S. non-immigrant and temporary visas
A foreign national who enters into the United States to invest, work,
train, or reside in the United States shall have a visa. Citizenship and
Immigration Legal Services, Inc. will help you to define the most
suitable visa for you according to the purpose of your trip as well as your
academic and professional backgrounds.
A-1 Visa:
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Foreign Government Officials: Ambassador, Public Minister, Career
Diplomat or Consular Officer, or Immediate Family.
A-2 Visa:
Foreign Government Officials: Other Foreign Government Official or
Employee, or Immediate Family.
A-3 Visa:
Foreign Government Officials: Attendant, Servant, or Personal Employee
of A-1 or A-2, or Immediate Family.
B-1 Visa:
Temporary Visa for Business Travelers and domestic servant.
B-2 Visa:
Visitors ("tourists"): Temporary Visitor for Pleasure or Medical
Treatment.
C-1 Visa:
Alien in Transit.
C-1/D Visa:
Combined Transit and Crewman Visa.
C-2 Visa:
Alien in Transit to United Nations Headquarters District Under Sec.
11.(3), (4), or (5) of the Headquarters Agreement.
C-3 Visa:
Foreign Government Official, Immediate Family, Attendant, Servant or
Personal Employee, in Transit.
C-4 Visa:
Transit without Visa, see ATP
D-1 Visa:
Crewmember departing on same vessel of arrival.
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/D-2 Visa:
Crewmember departing by means other than vessel of arrival.
E-1 Visa:
Treaty Trader, Spouses and Children under the age of twenty-one (21).
E2 Visa:
Treaty Investor, Spouses and Children under the age of twenty-one (21).
E-2 Visa:
Employee Treaty Trader, Spouses and Children under the age of twenty-
one (21).
E-3 Visa:
Special category for Australian nationals who will work in a Specialty
Occupation (Profession), Spouses and Children under the age of twenty-
one (21). It is called an "Australian H-1B".
EB-5 Visa:
Green Card for investors of $1 million or $500,000 in a "Pilot Program".
F-1 Visa:
Academic Student.
F-2 Visa:
Spouses and Children under the age of twenty-one (21).
G-1 Visa:
Principal Resident Representative of Recognized Foreign Government to
International Organization, Staff, or Immediate Family.
G-2 Visa:
Other Representative of Recognized Foreign Member Government to
International Organization, or Immediate Family.
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/G-3 Visa:
Representative of Nonrecognized Nonmember Foreign Government to
International Organization, or Immediate Family.
G-4 Visa:
International Organization Officer or Employee, or Immediate Family.
G-5 Visa:
Attendant, Servant, or Personal Employee of G-1 through G-4 or
Immediate Family.
H-1B1 Visa:
Professionals who come temporarily to the U.S. to perform a specialty
occupation.
H-1B2 Visa:
Aliens who come temporarily to the U.S. to perform cooperative research
and development projects.
H-1B3 Visa:
Aliens who come temporarily to the U.S. as a fashion model.
H-1C Visa:
Nurse coming to areas of health professional shortage.
H-2A Visa:
Aliens who come to the U.S. to perform agricultural labor or services of
temporary or seasonal nature.
H-2B Visa:
Aliens who come to the U.S. not to perform agricultural labor or services
but to perform work in temporary nature.
H-2R Visa:
Special type of H-2B visa which was temporarily provided as a way to
bypass the quotas for the H-2B for individuals who had been previously
issued H-2B status (enacted in the Emergency Supplemental
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami
Relief, 2005, P.L. 109-13, 119 Stat. 231, signed into law by
the President on May 11, 2005).
H-3 Visa:
Aliens who come to the U.S. to participate in a training program.
H-4 Visa:
Spouses and children under the age of twenty-one (21).
I Visa:
Representative of Foreign Information Media, Spouses and Child.
J-1 Visa:
Exchange Visitor.
J-2 Visa:
Exchange Visitor.
K-1 Visa:
Fiance(e) of United States Citizen.
K-2 Visa:
Minor Child of Fiance(e) of U.S. Citizen.
K-3 Visa:
Spouses of a U.S. Citizen under LIFE Act.
K-4 Visa:
Children of K-3 under LIFE Act.
L-1A Visa:
Intracompany Transferee (Executive, Managerial) Continuing
Employment with International Firm or Corporation.
L-1B Visa:
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Intracompany Transferee (Specialized Knowledge Personnel)
Continuing Employment with International Firm or Corporation.
L-2 Visa:
Spouses and Children under the age of twenty-one (21).
M-1 Visa:
Vocational Student or Other Nonacademic Student.
M-2 Visa:
Spouses and Children under the age of twenty-one (21).
N-8 Visa:
Parent of an Alien Classified SK-3 Special Immigrant.
N-9 Visa:
Children under the age of twenty-one (21) of N-8 or of an SK-1, SK-2,
or SK-4 Special Immigrant.
NATO-1 Visa:
Principal Permanent Representative of Member State to NATO
(including any of its Subsidiary Bodies) Resident in the U.S. and
Resident Members of Official Staff; Secretary General, Assistant
Secretary General, and Executive Secretary of NATO; Other Permanent
NATO Officials of Similar Rank, or Immediate Family.
NATO-2 Visa:
Other Representative of member state to NATO (including any of
Subsidiary Bodies) including Representatives, its Advisers and
Technical Experts of Delegations, Members of Immediate Art. 3, 4 UST
1796 Family; Dependents of Member of a Force Entering in Accordance
with the Provisions Status-of-Forces Agreement or in Accordance with
the provisions of the Protocol on the Status of International Military
Headquarters; Members of Such a Force if Issued Visas.
NATO-3 Visa:
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Official Clerical Staff Accompanying Representative of Member State to
NATO (including any of its Subsidiary Bodies) or Immediate Family.
NATO-4 Visa:
Official of NATO (Other Than Those Classifiable as NATO- 1) or
Immediate Family.
NATO-5 Visa:
Expert, Other Than NATO Officials Classifiable Under the NATO-4,
Employed in Missions on Behalf of NATO, and their Dependents.
NATO-6 Visa:
Member of a Civilian Component Accompanying a Force Entering in
Accordance with the Provisions of the NATO Status-of- Forces
Agreement; Member of a Civilian Component Attached to or Employed
by an Allied Headquarters Under the Protocol on the Status of
International Military Headquarters Set Up Pursuant to the North
Atlantic Treaty; and their Dependents.
NATO-7 Visa:
Attendant, Servant, or Personal Employee of NATO-1, NATO-2,
NATO-3, NATO-4, NATO-5, and NATO-6 Classes, or Immediate
Family.
O-1A Visa:
Aliens possessing extraordinary abilities in the sciences, arts, education,
business, or athletics.
O-1B Visa:
Aliens of extraordinary ability in the arts or extraordinary achievement
in the motion picture or television industry.
O-2 Visa:
Accompanying Alien.
O-3 Visa:
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Spouses or Children under the age of twenty-one (21).
P-1 Visa:
Athletes, Entertainment Groups and Support Personnel.
P-2 Visa:
Artistic Exchange (reciprocal exchange program).
P-3 Visa:
Artistic Exchange (culturally unique program).
P-4 Visa:
Spouses and Children under the age of twenty-one (21).
Q-1 Visa:
Participant in an International Cultural Exchange Program.
Q-2 Visa:
Irish Peace Process Cultural and Training Program (Walsh Visas).
Q-3 Visa:
Spouses and children under the age of twenty-one (21).
R-1 Visa:
Aliens in a religious occupation.
R-2 Visa:
Spouses or Children under the age of twenty-one (21).
S- 5 Visa: Certain Aliens Supplying Critical Information Relating to a
Criminal Organization or Enterprise.
S-6 Visa:
Certain Aliens Supplying Critical Information Relating to Terrorism.
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/S-7 Visa:
Qualified Family Member of S-5 or S-6.
T-1 Visa:
Victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons.
T-2 Visa:
Spouse of a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons.
T-3 Visa:
Child of victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons.
T-4 Visa:
Parent of victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons (if T-1 victim
if under twenty-one (21) years of age).
TN Visa:
Professional Workers under NAFTA.
TD Visa:
Spouses and children under the age of twenty-one (21).
TWOV Visa:
Transit Without Visa Program (Passenger and Crew) SUSPENDED: this
program was SUSPENDED at 11:00 a.m., Saturday August 2, 2003
(EST).
U-1 Visa:
Victim of Certain Criminal Activity.
U-2 Visa:
Spouse of U-1.
U-3 Visa:
Child of U-1.
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/U-4 Visa:
Parent of U-1, if U-1 is under the age of twenty-one (21).
V-1 Visa:
Spouse of an LPR who is the principal beneficiary of a family-based
petition (Form I-130) which was filed prior to December 21, 2000, and
has been pending for at least three years.
V-2 Visa:
Child of an LPR who is the principal beneficiary of a family-based visa
petition (Form I-130) that was filed prior to December 21, 2000, and has
been pending for at least three years.
V-3 Visa:
The derivative children of a V-1 or V-2.
TPS Visa:
Temporary Protected Status.
US Citizenship
“All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state
wherein there reside. No state shall make or enforce any law which shall
abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor
shall any state deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without
due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws.” - XIV Amendment to the U.S.
Constitution.
-Citizenship of children by birth
In the United States, nationality of children can derive from place of birth
(i.e. jus soli) or ethnicity:
- Birth in the U.S.: all persons born in the U.S. are U.S. citizens
regardless of the status of their parents (except for children of diplomats)
- Acquisition at birth: a child born outside the U.S. may be granted U.S.
citizenship if one or both parents are U.S. citizen residents
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/- Derivation through naturalization of Parents: In 2000, Congress passed
the Child Citizenship Act (CCA) permitting any child under the age of
eighteen
(18) who is adopted by a U.S. Citizen and immigrates to the United
States to be granted immediate citizenship.
-Naturalization
Naturalization: Process by which U.S. citizenship is conferred upon a
foreign national after complying with the requirements established by
Congress in the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA).
What are the requirements for administrative naturalization?
- Be a lawful permanent resident
- Be eighteen (18) years of age or older
- Residence and physical presence: reside continuously in the U.S. for at
least five years (or three years for permanent residence obtained through
marriage to a U.S. citizen) prior to filing
- Be capable to speak, read and write in English
- A knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of the U.S.
History as well as the principles and form of the U.S. government
- Attachment to the principles of U.S. Constitution
- Good moral character (alien showing he/she has never been convicted
of murder or aggravated felony for five years or three years for an
applicant married to a U.S. citizen or one (1) year for an applicant
serving in the U.S. Armed Forces prior filing)
- Oath of Allegiance: an applicant shall swear to:
Support the Constitution and obey the laws of the United States
Renounce any foreign allegiance and/or foreign title
Bear arms for the U.S. Armed Forces or perform services for the U.S.
government when necessary.
After acquiring U.S. Citizenship, you are granted the following rights:
- The right to obtain a U.S. passport
- The right to vote in the U.S. elections
- The right to participate in federal programs like Social Security
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/- The right to qualify for some security clearances.
Green Card
The Lawful Permanent Residence (“Green Card”) allows an immigrant,
i.e. a foreign national, to live and work permanently in the United States.
A multi-step procedure
To become an immigrant, you must go through a multi-step process:
- An immigrant petition filed either by a relative or an employer must be
approved by the USCIS (U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services).
How to become an immigrant through a relative? Preference Categories:
Foreign nationals who want to become immigrants are classified into
categories based on a preference system. Regarding the immediate
relatives of U.S. citizens, i.e. spouses, parents, and unmarried children
under the age of twenty-one (21), an immigrant visa number will
become immediately available.
However, the relatives in the remaining categories must wait for an
immigrant visa number to become available according to the following
preferences:
- First preference: Unmarried sons and daughters (twenty-one (21) years
old or older) of U.S. citizens.
- Second Preference: Spouses of lawful permanent residents, their
unmarried children (under twenty-one), and the unmarried sons and
daughters of lawful permanent residents.
- Third Preference: Married sons and daughters of U.S. Citizens.
- Fourth Preference: Brothers and sisters of adult U.S. Citizens.
Once the immigrant visa number is available, he/she may adjust status if
in the U.S.
1) If the sponsor is a U.S. Citizen, he or she may petition for:
- Parent (immediate relative category)
- Husband or wife (immediate relative category)
- Unmarried child under 21(immediate relative category)
- Unmarried son or daughter over 21
- Married son or daughter of any age
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/- Brother or sister, if the sponsor is at least twenty-one (21) years old.
2) If the sponsor is a lawful permanent resident, he or she may petition
for:
- Husband or wife
- Unmarried son or daughter of any age.
How to become an immigrant through employment?
Five categories based upon employment allow foreign nationals to be
granted lawful permanent residence.
EB-1: Priority Workers: Extraordinary Ability or Managers and
Executives transferred to the U.S. branch:
- Aliens who possess extraordinary abilities (nationally or internationally
recognized) in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics
- Aliens who are managers or executives of a U.S. branch
- Aliens who are exceptional researchers or professors.
EB-2: Professionals with advanced degrees or persons with exceptional
abilities:
- Aliens "who because of their exceptional ability in the sciences, arts, or
business and who are advanced will substantially benefit the national
economy, cultural, or educational interests or welfare of the United
States."
- Aliens who have advanced degrees.
EB-3: Professional, Skilled and Unskilled Workers:
- Professionals with a baccalaureate degree
- Skilled workers with at least two (2) years of experience
- Others workers with less than two (2) years of experience.
EB-4: Special Immigrants:
- Priest of a religious denomination
- Religious workers.
EB-5: Investors:
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Pursuant to the section 203(b)(5) of the Immigration and Nationality Act
(INA), 8 U.S.C. § 1153(B)(5), ten thousand (10,000) immigrant visas are
granted annually to qualified persons who are engaged in a new
commercial company. Five thousand (5,000) visas out of the ten
thousand (10,000) visas are granted to persons who apply under a pilot
program
involving a designed “Regional Centre”.
Purpose of Travel Visa
Category
Athlete, amateur or professional (competing
for B-1
prize money only)
Au pair (exchange visitor) J
Australian professional specialty E-3
Border Crossing Card: Mexico BCC
Business visitor B-1
CNMI-only transitional worker CW-1
Crewmember D
Diplomat or foreign government official A
Domestic employee or nanny B-1
Employee of a designated international
organization or NATO G1-G5,
NATO
Exchange visitor J
Foreign military personnel stationed in the A-2
United States NATO1-6
Foreign national with extraordinary ability in
Sciences, Arts, Education, Business or O
Athletics
Free Trade Agreement (FTA) Professional: H-1B1 –
Chile, Chile
Singapore H-1B1 –
Singapore
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/International cultural exchange visitor Q
Intra-company transferee L
Medical treatment (visitor for medical B-2
treatment)
Media, journalist I
NAFTA professional worker: Mexico, TN/TD
Canada
Performing athlete, artist, entertainer P
Physician J , H-1B
Professor, scholar, teacher (exchange visitor) J
Religious worker R
Specialty occupations in fields requiring
highly specialized knowledge H-1B
Student: academic, vocational F, M
Temporary agricultural worker H-2A
Temporary worker performing other services
or labor of a temporary or seasonal nature. H-2B
Tourism, vacation, pleasure visitor B-2
Training in a program not primarily for
employment H-3
Treaty trader/treaty investor E
Transiting the United States C
Victim of Criminal Activity U
Victim of Human Trafficking T
Nonimmigrant (V) Visa for Spouse and
Children of a Lawful Permanent Resident V
(LPR)
Renewals in the U.S. – A, G, and NATO
Visas
The chart below contains different purposes for immigrating to the
United States, and the related immigrant visa categories for which
information is available.
Select a visa category below to learn more:
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Immediate Relative & Family Visa Category
Sponsored
Spouse of a U.S. Citizen IR1, CR1
Spouse of a U.S. Citizen awaiting
approval of K-3 *
an I-130 immigrant petition
Fiancé(e) to marry U.S. Citizen & live in K-1 *
U.S.
Intercountry Adoption of Orphan Children
by IR3, IH3, IR4,
U.S. Citizens IH4
IR2, CR2, IR5,
Certain Family Members of U.S. Citizens F1,
F3, F4
Certain Family Members of Lawful
Permanent Residents F2A, F2B
Employer Sponsored – Employment
Employment-Based Immigrants, including
their preference group number (in square E1 E2
brackets): Priority workers [First] E3, EW
Professionals Holding Advanced Degrees SD, SR, SE,
and Persons of Exceptional Ability SQ, SI T5, C5
[Second] Professionals and Other
Workers [Third]
Certain Special Immigrants: [Fourth]
Employment Creation/Investors [Fifth]
Religious Workers SD, SR
Iraqi and Afghan Translators/Interpreters SI
Iraqis Who Worked for/on Behalf of the
U.S. Government SQ
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Afghans Who Worked for/on Behalf of
the U.S. Government SQ
Other Immigrants
Diversity Immigrant Visa DV
Returning Resident SB
States and Codes of America:
States Codes Capitals
Alabama AL Montgomery
Alaska AK Juneau
Arizona AZ Phoenix
Arkansas AR Little Rock
California CA Sacramento
Colorado CO Denver
Connecticut CT Hartford
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Delaware DE Dover
Florida FL Tallahassee
Georgia GA Atlanta
Hawaii HI Honolulu
Idaho ID Boise
Illinois IL Springfield
Indiana IN Indianapolis
Iowa IA Des Moines
Kansas KS Topeka
Kentucky KY Frankfort
Louisiana LA Baton Rouge
Maine ME Augusta
Maryland MD Annapolis
Massachusetts MA Boston
Michigan MI Lansing
Minnesota MN St. Paul
Mississippi MS Jackson
Missouri MO Jefferson City
Montana MT Helena
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Nebraska NE Lincoln
Nevada NV Carson City
New Hampshire NH Concord
New Jersey NJ Trenton
New Mexico NM Santa Fe
New York NY Albany
North Carolina NC Raleigh
North Dakota ND Bismarck
Ohio OH Columbus
Oklahoma OK Oklahoma City
Oregon OR Salem
Pennsylvania PA Harrisburg
Rhode Island RI Providence
South Carolina SC Columbia
South Dakota SD Pierre
Tennessee TN Nashville
Texas TX Austin
Utah UT Salt Lake City
Vermont VT Montpelier
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/Virginia VA Richmond
Washington WA Olympia
West Virginia WV Charleston
Wisconsin WI Madison
Wyoming WY Cheyenne
Thank
You
Laxminarayana Bupathi - Senior US Recruitment Trainer
(15+ Years of experience in Recruitment & Training)
bupathi.recruiter@gmail.com | Laxminarayana.bupathi@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/laxminarayana-usrecruitmenttrainer-usstaffingtrainer/